This video is the clearest explanation
of Git work trees on the internet and
how they make your AI agents a lot more
powerful. So what even are git work
trees? I would say this is one of the
most essential concepts to understand in
2026 if you're building software yet
most people do not understand it or
don't know anything about it. And it's
especially important to know if you're
using multiple AI agents at the same
time such as cloth codeex anti-gravity
or any other agent. So, in this video,
I'm going to explain what Git worksheets
are, how they work, and why everyone is
going crazy over them. So, here's the
issue with not using Git Worksheets.
Let's say you're doing some work on a
feature, and then there's a critical bug
report, and you need to fix this bug,
right? Well, what you need to do
normally, you need to stash your
progress on the feature. Then, you need
to switch to the main branch where the
bug is. You need to fix the bug. Then
you need to switch back, pop the stash,
and just like that, you lost a bunch of
time context switching and having to
stop what you were doing to fix another
thing because you're not using git work.
So here's the core idea. Git workshries
on the surface when you hear it for the
first time, they sound complicated.
Okay, sounds like a super deep
programming term, but the idea behind
git workshries is actually very simple
and very elegant. A new work tree is
basically a copy of your project folder,
but with the same git history, right?
Right? So it's literally a different
folder but with the same comets that led
up to its creation. So you can think of
it as opening the same Google doc in two
different tabs but each is a different
version of the same Google doc. Right?
The changes and the creation were the
same but now they're separate Google
documents. So you can edit them in a
different way. With worksheets you can
have multiple things happening at the
same time. Right? In the first work tree
you can be doing a new feature for
authentication. In the second worksheet
you can be hot fixing a bug. In the
third one you can be reviewing a PR. And
as you might have guessed, this is
especially important with AI agents
because if you're not running multiple
AI agents in parallel, you're missing
out on a lot of productivity. But David,
why now? Why are Git work trees blowing
up right now when they were created 11
years ago in 2015? And the answer is AI
agents. Git work trees have never been
so essential, right? Look at this. Even
in the half of 2025, Git Work tries were
like okayish, but like 15% as popular as
they are right now. So, I'm not joking.
If you are not using Git Work trees in
2026, you really are falling behind.
Now, real quick, if you're enjoying this
video and you want to see more practical
tutorials like this one, make sure to
subscribe. In the YouTube studio, I can
only see that 25% of you watching are
subscribed, which means three out of
four people are not. So, if you want to
see more highquality AI content appear
in your YouTube recommended, go below
the video and click the subscribe
button. It's greatly appreciated. Thank
you very much. Now, AI agents absolutely
love Git Workshrees. First of all, this
is what makes true parallel execution
possible, right? There's no more
crossfighting because in the past you
had agent A doing stuff, agent B and you
know, even if they work on different
features, maybe they change the same
file and there is confusion like why is
this file changed? It was different when
I read it the last time. I'm going to
make these changes and then messes up
with the other agent. A lot of
complications like that. But with get
work trees, this is no longer an issue.
Also, you can avoid the problem of
context pollution. This is an issue of
you switching a branch while a different
agent is working. So it's polluted with
context that doesn't exist and context
pollution is a real issue that is
completely solved with git work. So by
fully embracing the concept of git
workshries you can finally become a real
agentic conductor while others are still
trying to be vibe coders. And don't
worry I'll show you all of this how to
do it and how to actually use it inside
of clo code later in the video. So
here's what it looks like in practice
when working with AI agents using
worksheets. Each agent gets their own
worksheet allowing it to cook. You know,
no nothing is preventing it, nothing is
clashing with it. And imagine like all
of us have this memory of having only
one computer in the household, right?
You have to share the same device with
others. It's it's annoying. You know,
each person has different folders,
different applications. It's terrible,
right? This is how a agents feel when
you don't give them good work trees. But
with Git Work trees, agent A can add a
feature, agent B can fix a bug, and both
can run at the same time. That is the
core thing. And when they're done, you
simply review their work and decide to
merge it like a true multi- aent
maestro. And by the way, this is the
same problem of sequential versus
parallel that was solved in computer
science in the 1950s, right? Where
sometimes you have a set of instructions
and if it's sequential, each step has to
be in order. It has to wait on the
previous step to finish. But for a lot
of things, parallel computing is a lot
more efficient where you have different
sub problems. each only has the
instructions for that problem and then
you can have multiple processes running
at the same time in parallel. Nowadays,
every other AI model can oneshot a
pretty front end. But setting up a
proper back end is a lot more difficult.
Every time you start a new project, you
have to decide where do you store your
data. That could be user accounts,
vector embeddings, logs. It has to live
somewhere. And you need a solution
that's not only secure but also quick
because who wants to spend three days
setting up some back-end infrastructure?
This is exactly why I use Superbase.
It's an open-source Postgress database
with an elegant Python SDK that simply
works. It's not only simple to use, but
it also has everything you need. Just
watch this. First, I spin up a new
project. Then, I install the
Superbase-Py package and I've got off
database storage, even real-time
subscriptions, all in a few lines of
Python. And I don't have to deal with
any Docker compose, server config, none
of that nonsense. In fact, Superbase is
what I'm using for vectal. This is my
database. And the reason I chose it is
that again simple to use, has everything
you need and it doesn't break under
load. We've got tens of thousands of
users and vectal is running just fine.
And that's because under the hood,
Superbase is production grade Postgress.
So if you're building any kind of
software that needs a database, just use
Superbase. The link to Superbase is
going to be in the description. You can
get started completely for free. And
honestly, once you start using
Superbase, you will never go back. Oh,
and thank you Superbase for sponsoring
this video. Now back to Git Worksheets.
Some of you, I can already hear this,
are thinking, "But David, I'm not a
developer. Aren't Git work trees too
complicated for me?" No, they aren't
because luckily the cloth desktop app
uses work trees automatically. And I'm
going to show you that in a bit because
it's super simple. Just make sure you're
working on the same project folder in
both of the sessions and each session
will get its own work tree. And for
those of you who are a bit more advanced
and you want to see how to use git
workshries with cloth code in the
terminal, I'm going to show you that at
the end of this video. So, first thing
we need is the cloth desktop app. So,
type in cloud desktop into Google or
Duck Duck Go or any of the search
engines that still exist because soon
enough everything will be agents and
just click on the first link. Then, make
sure to download Cloud Desktop for your
operating system. Once you install the
app, just open CL. So, on the sidebar,
you can see your chat sessions. But at
the top, this is the main thing, right?
This is the reason why you should
install the cloud app and not just use
cloud.ai. Obviously, you have the chat.
If you use claw.ai, you already know
this. But then you also have co-work. I
made a full video on that. We're going
to link it below as well. This is for
like office task, right? Sheets,
organizing folders, stuff like that. But
then you have cloth code. And this might
be the easiest way to use cloth code.
Sure, it's not as customizable and fancy
as using terminal. But if you're a
beginner and if you're scared of the
terminal or you're not comfortable with
using the terminal, this is the way to
use cloud code. And as I mentioned
earlier, it's also the most convenient
and easiest way to use git work. So
first off, let's create a new folder,
right? I'm going to name it work trees.
Boom. And then inside of cloud desktop,
you know, again, make sure in top right
you're on code, click on new session.
And then at the bottom, you can select
the folder. And I'm going to select the
empty folder we just created. And boom.
Here we can do something like create a
presentation that is PowerPoint format
in this folder that explains the concept
of Git work trees. Now this is going to
launch a worksheet and say yeah we need
to trust the workspace and now this is a
cloth code running here we need to allow
it but the beauty is we can start
another one right so while this guy is
running and we can see in fact this is
still empty right so empty folder
nothing in here so far you can see that
it launches the skill for presentations
we can go top left click on new session
and we can launch another cloth code but
make sure to select the same folder
right so I'm in this worksheets folder
that I created and here we can do like
create a simple architecture that is
ready for a superbase back end. Just
design the folder structure, add in some
explanatory MD files, but do not write
any code yet. Boom. So again, same
folder, but it gets its own worksheet
because otherwise the cloud code agents
could conflict, right? If they try to do
same stuff in the same folder and you
can see that it tries to ls and yes, the
folder is still empty. But this guy is
working on the presentation. We need to
allow the skill. Okay, so let's allow
this skill. Let's see if this guy uh uh
uh yes, allow once. Boom. And we have
stuff happening here. But it shouldn't u
limit the first agent because both of
them are in their own worksheet. As you
can see, it's asking me for permissions
every single time. So I'm going to show
you how to run cloth code without
permissions, which is the best way to
use cloth code if you ask me. But for
that, we're going to open the almighty
terminal. So open the terminal. Boom.
And then you can either cd into the
folder or you can run cloth code
globally. and then just have it go into
that folder. But I prefer launching it
in a specific directory. And by the way,
pro tip, when you're using the terminal,
make sure to use tab. So instead of
typing cd documents, you can just type
in cd do o tab. And it knows, you know,
documents. It prefills it. And then
instead of typing like code, I can do co
boom code. Instead of typing vectal, I
can choose v. Boom. VC vectal. So if you
do this, you can use the terminal a lot
faster than most people. Also, another
essential terminal command is ls to list
out the folders, right? So, here I'm
going to do cd David. Boom. LS again. CD
video files. Boom. Can do clear ls to to
list out all of the things in this
directory. And then I'm going to cd into
git worksheets. And just like that, I'm
here. And we can actually launch the clo
here. So, clo dash dangerously skip
permissions. Boom. Hit enter. And this
is what you want to see. the red bypass
permissions on text. Now we have cloth
code with full power. And I'm going to
give you two more pro tips /model. You
can select opus with 1 million context.
Definitely do that because opus I'm
going to show you this is the best model
at long context. So a lot of people
don't realize that 1 million context
doesn't equal 1 million context, right?
And Opus 4.6 is by far the best at long
context retrieval. So look at this.
While models like GBD 5.4 four have a
massive drop off in capability over long
context. Opus is uh only a bit worse,
right? So compared to 256k tokens which
a lot of people used to do slash clear
or slash compact at that level with
Opus, you don't have to do that. You can
keep going and it's still super
powerful. But if you look at Gemini 3.1
Pro, it struggles at long context. If
you look at GBD 5.4, it's the same
thing. But with Opus and Sonnet, these
models still perform at long context. So
when you have the terminal and when
you're using cloud code, make sure to do
slashmodel and make sure to select opus
with 1 million context. Yes, it's more
expensive, but it's absolutely worth it.
Another thing that's absolutely worth it
is the slashfast mode. Type in slashfast
and make sure you turn this on. It is
more expensive and you do need to use
API. So for that you need to do / logout
and you cannot use your cloud
subscription. You need to use API
pricing. But man, this is a complete
game changer. If you're a serious
builder and you love cloth and you want
to do the best productivity setup
possible, this is what you need. 1
million context and fast mode. It's not
even close. It's completely
revolutionary. It sounds simple. It
sounds like a small change, but trust
me, when you try this for the first
time, you're going to be shocked. So,
while using, you know, cloth app is
simple and it's nice for beginners, all
that, man. Guys, you have to do this.
You have to use Opus 4.6 with the fast
mode. It's complete game changer. So,
now we're going to look at how to
actually use Git Workshrees inside of
Cloud Code. Real quick, if you're trying
to build an AI business, listen up
because 95% of AI builders never make a
single dollar online. They spend months
building tools, agents, or automations,
but they never actually validate the
idea itself. And I know this because
last year I managed to sell my AI
company for $1.8 million just 14 months
after starting. But most people get
stuck before they even get their first
customer. And that's why I decided to
build my accelerator to help people go
from an idea to a validated product to a
clear path to $10,000 a month and
beyond. Inside of the accelerator, me
and my team work with you closely for 6
months, and by the end, you have a
validated startup idea, a fully built
and deployed AI product, and a clear
monetized business. So, if you're
building an AI and you want to turn it
into a real business, make sure to book
a call and we'll look at it and see if
your idea is worth building. It's going
to be the second link below the video.
Okay. So, first off, I'm going to launch
a second cloth code. Let's move this one
to the top. Boom. Command N to launch a
new one. Boom. Clo dangerously skip
permissions. There's no other way, guys.
Zoom it in a bit. Okay. So two cloth
codes both of them in the same folder
and we're going to have them work on the
same thing but we're going to utilize
git workshries explain structure of this
folder. Actually we have something in
this folder because uh these cloud codes
are working on it. So we have four cloth
codes launched in the same folder.
Actually let's do a new one. I'm going
to do um app. Let's do an app. I'm going
to say I'm going to kill this. Boom. I'm
going to do ls cd into app. Okay. And
then I'm going to launch cloth code
here. Same with this one. Ctrl + C to
kill it. CD app. Boom. Clo dangerously
skip permissions. There we go. So we
have a fresh directory with nothing in
it. So that way, you know, the clo
desktop app use cases don't interfere
with our terminals. And let's get
started. So now I'm going to choose one
of the cloud agents. And I'm going to
give it an instruction. Initialize a new
G repo in this folder. And create a
simple express app named app.js. JS with
a slash users endpoint. Install all the
dependencies and commit everything.
Boom. Send that. And by the way, this is
the fastest way to work. Just speaking
your prompts into existence using the
Opus fast mode. And look how fast it is.
This is insane. Like if you're not using
the fast mode, you're leaving so many
productivity gains on the table. It's
it's really crazy. So all of that is
done. How like how long? Couple seconds.
Whole express app, hundreds of lines of
code. Crazy. In fact, we can tell it to
run the node server itself. just start
the node server for me. Boom. And then
we can go to local close 3000. Copy
this. Go back to the browser. Uh that's
my uh landing page. I'm going to tell it
to kill the process. Our landing page is
a local 3000. Make sure to clear that
port. Uh and then start this app there.
So this is why you need to do bypass
permissions, you know, dangerously skip
permissions because otherwise I would
have to confirm each of these steps and
it would take forever. Okay. So now
we're getting uh this error. So
screenshot this. I'm getting this error.
Is this expected or not? Answer in
short. We probably didn't tell it to
build it. There we defined user route,
not a slash route. Oh, we need to go
slash users. That's my bad. Users. Okay,
so our express app is working. But now
let's leverage the power of git workre.
So I'm going to switch to my second
cloud code and I'm going to say create
two git work trees. One for
authentication and one for front end and
design. Okay, my transcription faced it
up, but um Clo can figure it out. Then
let's switch back to agent number one
and say check all Git work trees that
exist in this project and list them out
to me. Be concise. Nice. So it can spot
the new git worksheets as you can see.
And we're going to tell it to switch. So
I'm going to say switch into the front
end design workree. And we're going to
have this one switch into the
authentication one. Switch into the
authentication work tree. Now sometimes
cloud code has trouble doing it itself.
So I'm going to show you how to do that.
So just again Ctrl C to kill cloud code
as a process. Type in clear to reset the
terminal. Now in order to see all Git
work trees in any directory just type in
git workree list and it will list them
out. You can see that we have the main
we have the feature authentication and
feature front end design. So I'm going
to do clear. I'm going to cd do front
end design. Boom. Now we're in the get
worksheet here. I'm going to kill it
here. Clear cd dot slash front. This is
going to be the authentication
authentication. There we go. And we can
once again launch our cloth code agents.
Check if you're operating inside of a
git work tree. Check whether we have git
repository initialized in this project
and whether you are inside of a work
tree or not. Okay. Yes, you're operating
inside of a g work tree. Beautiful. And
this look how fast it is you guys. You
have to use the fast mode. It's crazy.
Yes, this is a good reposi. You are
inside of a work tree. So okay as you
might have guessed your job is to
implement proper authentication for this
app. So this guy is in the
authentication worksheet. So I'm going
to give it a detailed prompt to build
the off for this app and at the same
time in parallel we're going to get this
cloth code running on the front end. So
as you can see I told you build
beautiful front end for git learning app
create interactive single page site with
hero section then visual cheat sheet of
the core git commands and there's not
going to be any conflicts because each
of them are in their own git work tree
this guy the prompt was build a back end
for interactive g learning app setup
express with login endpoint using jt
protect all api routs with of middleware
all right so the agent number two is
finished uh less than 58 seconds because
opus fast is very fast uh front end guy
is still running But keep in mind that
right now each work work tree is their
own isolated world. So this is not going
to use both right the local host 3000
cannot access both is on the main app
and we have these two are completely
separate right that's the beauty of work
trees you can see the branch is feature/
authentication here the branch is
feature/frontend design here and this is
the / status line by the way if you're
wondering you can design your own you
can tell claude to set up your own UI so
that you see this status line below the
input field so both our agents are
finished so what I'm going to do is I'm
going to launch a third terminal. I'm
going to cd into the same directory.
Boom. There we are. I'm going to do get
work tree list. We have the worksheets.
Next, I'm going to launch a third clot
code, but not in a work tree in the root
of this project. Dangerously skip
permissions. Check all of the work trees
in this project and review the work from
both agents. Give me a concise review.
So, one, this is going to be the
reviewer and these are basically the
builders. So let's see what it thinks
because right now the code is going to
be disconnected. The agents didn't see
what the other one was doing. So we're
going to have a third one to check it
and if it's good, we can merge them with
get merge and then the name of the work
tree. As you can see, it's running two
explore agents at the same time
reviewing both work trees. And there
might be some changes required so that
they align cuz my prompts were not that
detailed. They were like one paragraph,
you know. Okay, it says it's not merge
ready, but I'm going to try merging
anyway to just show you how to do it. So
again, it's get merge and then the name
of the work tree. So these are our
features. So feature slash
authentication.
Boom. We've merged everything from the
authentication workree into the main
branch. And now we're going to try to
merge the other one. Hopefully there's
not going to be any conflicts. If so,
actually let's have CLCO do it. Why am I
doing this manually? List out all work
trees in this project. List out all git
work trees in this directory. Yeah,
voice transcription is not the best
sometimes. Now, I need you to merge the
front end design work tree into the main
app. Okay, so there's conflicts, but as
you can see, I don't need to do
anything. Cloud code fixing it again. I
know I said this like 10 times, but the
speed is amazing. And the merge is
complete. Let's reload the app. Okay,
now kill all processes on localhost 3000
and restart the full app. Did it uh
install dependencies? Yeah, missing
them. It figures out everything on its
own. I don't even have to tell it. Yeah,
I mean this is crazy. Even a year ago,
this would be uncomprehensible. Boom.
There we are. This is what was built.
Git master explaining Git and all of the
different Git commands. Let's check it
out. Explore commands. So, first you
need to know get in it to initialize a
repo. Click to flip. Here is the
explanation. Then get add to stage your
changes. Here is the commands. Get
commit to write the commit message. Get
branch to list out all branches. Create
a new branch. Delete a branch. Rename
current branch. Git merge. We did that
right now. And then get workree. Add a
new work tree. List out all work trees.
Remove a work tree. Prune stale work
trees. Let's see some git usage
statistics. Most git add is the most
common. Then git commit, git branch. You
can see that uh most people don't use
git work. Only 18% of developers use git
work. So if you watch until the end, you
already have a huge advantage over most
people who are still not using good work
trees. So yeah, this app was built by
two separate agents. Well, actually the
third one was resolving a merge
conflict. But yeah, these two agents
built the app independently in their own
worksheets. The third one put it
together and now we have a full app
built with the power of git worksheets.
Now obviously this is it would be faster
to build this in a single cloud code
instance. But if you're not dumb, if you
have the slightest bit of imagination,
you can see how git worksheets are
especially useful on larger projects,
right? when again you're working on a
big feature and at the same time you
spot a bug. So instead of like stashing
all your changes and creating a separate
branch and having to context switch just
launch another cloth code in a separate
work tree and have it begin working on
that bug. It really becomes more
exponentially more powerful with more
complex projects. For simple projects,
obviously you can oneshot them in a
single terminal with a single cloth
code. But yeah, workre absolutely
essential and as this Google trends
chart clearly shows, Git workshries are
only getting started. They're exploding
in popularity and now is the time to
begin using them. So hopefully you enjoy
this video and again, if you are
building an AI app and you want an
expert from my team to look at it
completely for free to see if the idea
is validated and if it's worth building
or not, make sure to book a free call.
It's going to be the second link below
the video. With that being said, thank
you guys for watching and have a
wonderful, productive week.